Response to feedback on novel vaccines (#1174)
greenelab/covid19-review: content/25.app.vax-novel.md

### Janssen’s JNJ-78436735

The Johnson and Johnson (J&amp;J) vaccine developed by Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a subsidiary of J&amp;J, was conducted in collaboration with and funded by “Operation Warp Speed” [@url:https://www.gao.gov/products/gao-21-319; @url:https://www.jnj.com/johnson-johnson-announces-a-lead-vaccine-candidate-for-covid-19-landmark-new-partnership-with-u-s-department-of-health-human-services-and-commitment-to-supply-one-billion-vaccines-worldwide-for-emergency-pandemic-use; @doi:10.1056/NEJMoa2034201;@doi:10.1038/s41541-020-00243-x].
The vaccine was developed using Janssen’s AdVac^®^ and PER.C6 platforms that were previously utilized to develop the European Commission-approved Ebola vaccine (Ad26 ZEBOV and MVN-BN-Filo) and their Zika, respiratory syncytial virus, and human immunodeficiency virus investigational vaccine candidates [@url:https://www.jnj.com/johnson-johnson-initiates-pivotal-global-phase-3-clinical-trial-of-janssens-covid-19-vaccine-candidate].

The development of a single-dose vaccine was desired by J&amp;J from the outset, with global deployment being a key priority [@doi:10.1038/s41586-020-2607-z].

> Using their AdVac^®^ technology, the vaccine can remain stable for up to two years between -15 and -25&#8451;C and at least three months at 2 to 8&#8451;C [@url:https://www.jnj.com/johnson-johnson-initiates-pivotal-global-phase-3-clinical-trial-of-janssens-covid-19-vaccine-candidate].<!--Confirm symbol is rendering-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using their AdVac^®^ technology, the vaccine can remain stable for up to two years between -15 and -25&#8451; and at least three months at 2 to 8&#8451; [@url:https://www.jnj.com/johnson-johnson-initiates-pivotal-global-phase-3-clinical-trial-of-janssens-covid-19-vaccine-candidate].
```
Don't need the symbol and the C. Here is the HTML artifact:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3532898/188271265-61d034c9-6054-4727-b7e6-cf8f79768131.png)

While antibody titers do correlate with protection [@doi:10.1126/science.abm3425; @doi:10.1016/j.vaccine.2021.12.006; @doi:10.1016/j.vaccine.2021.05.063; @doi:10.1101/2021.05.21.21257572; @doi:10.1038/s41423-020-00588-2], they are not the only mechanisms of immune protection.
For example, T cell and non-neutralizing antibody responses may be unaffected or less affected by the new VOC, and they warrant further investigation.

### Global Vaccine Status and Distribution

In North America, the majority of vaccines distributed until March 2021 have been produced by Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna.
In Canada, the vaccine approval process is conducted by Health Canada, which uses a fast-tracked process whereby vaccine producers can submit data as it becomes available to allow for rapid review.
An approval may be granted following reviews of the available phase III clinical data.
This is followed by a period of pharmacovigilance in the population using their post-market surveillance system, which will monitor the long-term safety and efficacy of any vaccines [@41tJkg7h; @YPaDf9jp].

> Health Canada has authorized the use of the Pfizer (December 9th, 2020), Moderna (December 23rd, 2020), Oxford-AstraZeneca (February 26th, 2021), and the Janssen (March 5th, 2021) vaccines, and the Novavax Inc vaccine is also under consideration [@url:https://www.canada.ca/en/health-canada/services/drugs-health-products/covid19-industry/drugs-vaccines-treatments/authorization/applications.html].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Health Canada has authorized the use of the Pfizer (December 9th, 2020), Moderna (December 23rd, 2020), Oxford-AstraZeneca (February 26th, 2021), and the Janssen (March 5th, 2021) vaccines, and the Novavax Inc vaccine is also under consideration [@canada-applications-received].
```
